# long-distribution  
## COMPUTATION  
- the use of computers, especially as a subject of research or study is **COMPUTATION**
   - ### CPU
      -The computer's central processing unit (CPU) is the portion of a computer that retrieves and executes instructions.
   - ### GPU
      -Graphics processing unit (GPU) a specialized processor originally designed to accelerate graphics rendering.
   - ### DPU
      -A data processing unit (DPU) is a programmable computer processor that tightly integrates a general-purpose CPU with network interface hardware
   - ### TPU
      - Tensor Processing Units (TPUs) are Google's custom-developed application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) used to accelerate machine learning workloads.
   - ### VM
      - A virtual machine, commonly shortened to just VM, is no different than any other physical computer like a laptop, smart phone, or server. It has a CPU, memory, disks to store your files, and can connect to the internet if needed
   - ### ASICS
      - ASIC stands for Application-Specific Integrated Circuit. ASICs are computer chips that combine several different circuits on one chip. They are custom-built for a specific purpose, such as running in a digital voice recorder or a high-efficiency video codec.
   - ### PRNG
     - A pseudo-random number generator (PRNG) is an algorithm that uses mathematical formulas to produce sequences of numbers that approximate the properties of random numbers.The sequence generated by a PRNG is not truly random. However, an observer who does not know the value of the seed cannot distinguish the output from that of a (true) random bit generator.
   - ### ARM
      - ARM stands for Advanced RISC Machine. It's a processor architecture based on a 32-bit reduced instruction set (RISC) computer. ARM is one of the most licensed and extensive processor cores in the world.
   - ### RISC-V
      - It is an open-source instruction set architecture (ISA) that allows anyone to develop custom processors without paying a licensing fee. RISC-V is based on established reduced instruction set computer (RISC) principles.
   - ### HOST
      - A network host is a computer or other device that is connected to a computer network. Hosts can include clients and servers that send or receive data, services, and applications.
   # STORAGE
    - ### RAID
      - RAID stands for "Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks" or "Redundant Array of Independent Disks". It's a data storage virtualization technology that combines multiple physical disk drive components into one or more logical units.  
   - RAID is used for:    
       - Data redundancy
       - Performance improvement
       - Storing the same idea in different places
  
  ### SHARDING
    -Database sharding is the process of breaking up large database tables into smaller chunks called shards. A shard is a horizontal data partition that contains a subset of the total data set.
  ### DATA CENTERS
  - A data center is a physical facility that stores a company's critical applications and data. It contains computing and networking equipment that is used to: 
  - Collect, process, and store data
  - Distribute and enable access to resources
  
 ### HCL
   -HCL stands for Hindustan Computers Limited. HCL is an Indian multinational IT services and consulting company.HCL offers data center solutions, including: Modernization, Platform tech refresh, Datacenter consolidation, Datacenter migration, Hybrid cloud.  

 ### Hyperscale Data Center
   -A hyperscale data center is a large facility that houses critical compute and network infrastructure. These facilities are designed to support robust and scalable workloads.They are often associated with large companies that require vast data processing and storage requirements, such as: Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Facebook, Apple.Hyperscale data centers typically house 5,000 or more servers.  

### Public Data centers 
  -A public data center is a facility that provides shared access to applications and data using a complex network, compute, and storage infrastructure.Some of the most reliable colocation data center companies are:   
     - QTS Realty Trust Inc (NYSE: QTS)
     - Digital Realty (NYSE: DLR)
     - Equinix (NASDAQ)

### NFS
 -NFS stands for Network File System. It is a file system mechanism that allows users to store and retrieve data from multiple disks and directories across a shared network. NFS is a distributed file system protocol that allows users to access files and directories located on remote computers and treat those files and directories as if they were local 
 
       
